# Assignment 02: Usability Testing

Sadhana Vadrevu | DH 110 | Spring 2022

## About this Usability Test

Every Noise At Once is a powerful music discovery site that allows users to discover new music based on over 5,000 genre distinctions generated by Spotify data. However, the power of this site is not very usable, especially for a first-time user. The heuristic evaluation of the site showed that although the application has good User Control and Freedom and Flexibility and Efficiency of Use, the lack of Visibility of System Status, Match Between System and the Real World, Consistency and Standards, and Help and Documentation make users have a difficult experience on the site. Because the application is lacking in many of the user experience heuristics, we want to perform some tests with users to see which features to focus on in the next development process. This is part of the User-Centered Design process, where we aim to focus on improving the features that are important to the consumers of the application. By performing usability testing, we can hone in on the ways users tend to want to use this site - whether that be discovering new genres, discovering genres similar to their established taste, or finding artists within a genre. Once we know how users are likely to use this site, we can then center our design on making those actions and features more intuitive and usable. By the end of this testing, we hope to know a which features to focus on improving and where the biggest blocks in using those features are for a first-time user.

## UT Google Form Survey
https://forms.gle/KnbqLKjrkMgssUHMA

## Pilot UT Video
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kedKWQdtC8BohdyRjE7UXZKqaZNJ3H_l/view?usp=sharing

## Findings

In performing this pilot  test, there were a few issues I found with my initial testing strategy. First, the test was much shorter than I expected it to be. I think this is partly due to the fact that the participant did not talk through their thoughts much. I as a moderator should have probably prompted them to speak through their thought process more, and that is something I will try to do more in the next round of tests. I also was not sure how much I should lead the participant to accomplish the task. Also, I realized that my step-by-step instructions for the tasks may not be specific enough. The participant struggled to understand what some of the tasks were asking. Also, I am friends with the participant so this was a very casual test. However, I think the three tasks I set up were relatively representative of the features that are useful on the site, and the participant was engaged throughout the testing process. As we go forward in the testing process, I hope to improve my moderation skills and get more comfortable in this position. 
